# Second Journal Entry...

## My UX Experience with the Playstation 5

### Crispin Gutierrez, May 15th 2023

I was lucky enough to pick up one of these at launch. While the new console experience has somewhat worn off, some of its quirks and features are interesting to look at from a UX perspective.

[](/assets/IMG_1016.jpg)
To start I wanted to look at the device's outward appearance before looking at the UI.
Coming from prior generations all playstations had clearly distinctly labeled buttons that are usually different in size and placement that tell you whether to power on/off or eject a disc. The playstation 5 on the other hand does not make it as clear, the two buttons the device are not labeled rather the label is right next to them both lightly engraved into the device. Because the sheet of plastic that it's engraved into is a dark black color and the shape of the device shading the overtop the buttons even further it is extremely hard to tell which one is for power and which one is for eject. On top of that both buttons appear right next to each other and are the same size making the difference between the two even harder to tell apart without having to shine a flashlight on it. Sometimes when I power it off something I don't want to eject will eject and when I try to eject I might turn it off instead, on accident. The disc drive itself is clearly an afterthought with its awkward tacked-on placement and the lack of intentional design with button size and placement that we saw with older generations of playstation consoles. This model feels like not a whole lot of care was put into making the device error tolerant to prevent users from making mistakes like these.
[](/assets/IMG_1015.jpg)

When you turn it on you are greeted with the home screen exactly how you left it last. Either within the Games or Media tab. On that note all applications are separated by that definition on the Playstation 5 with streaming services and dvd playback separated from your game library.
The playstation 4 made no distinctions between applications so moving over to this one was slightly confusing on how to access streaming services or why I couldn't see my movie discs being read when I could only see that if I switched the tab.
[](/assets/FwNOqwSaMAApViD.jpg)[](/assets/FwNOrBCaYAIYpfA.jpg)

Moving on to the controller it has a new shape, sitting in your hand more like a xbox controller than prior playstation controllers. The bright glow from the light bar that ps4 controllers are completely gone, removing a needless distraction. The controller now features haptic feedback triggers that while neat in theory in practice make me feel like i'm going to break the triggers if they stiffen or lock during certain games and largely feels unnecessary to my overall enjoyment. All this said the controller feels very nice to use and is a great user experience coming off of the already great experience using a ps4 controller. One caveat though lies with battery life and charging the controller. Because of the added features to the controller the battery life is at about 10 hours of battery before needing to charge, which when compared to the prior generations approximate 6 hours of battery life is very good. But compared to its competitors with battery life reaching the near 40 hour mark it starts to show how abysmal it is on playstation. This wouldn't be such a big deal if it weren't for the usb c charger. The electrical current moving through the device into the controller by putting your hand near the plug is susceptible to electrocuting the user this isn't that big of a worry normally and is pretty common with usb c in general but its the addition of a small port in the front where a charging cradle can be placed to charge the controller as an alternative. So when using the controller while its plugged in the electrical current moving through the cord on the opposite end comes through to the other end and electrocuting your hand that is likely resting significantly closer to that port than the one on the back. For users who want to continue using the console while its plugged in it will become a poor user experience.
[](/assets/IMG_1018.jpg)[](/assets/IMG_1019.jpg)
